---
layout:     post
title:      MySQL Review
subtitle:   Knowledge and command in MySql
date:       2018-09-06
author:     Hongyi
header-img: img/post-bg-ios9-web.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - MySQL
---

# Relational Database vs Non-relational Database
**SQL database** uses structured query language (SQL) for defining and manipulating data. SQL requires that you use predefined schemas to determine the structure of your data before you work with it. All of your data must follow the same structure. Its advantages are that itis safer and great for complex queries. The downsides are that it lacks of the flexibiltiy and the data structure is fixed.

**NoSQL database** has dynamic schema for unstructured data, and data is stored in many ways. The data is stored in many ways: column-oriented, document-oriented, graph-based or organized as KeyValue store. The flexibility means that: 1. You don't need to define the data structure before you create the doucments. 2. The structure of documents can be different.

### MySQL vs MongoDB
The following are some **MySQL** benefits and strengths:
- Open source, it's free.
- MYSQL is available for all major platforms: Linux, Windows, Mac etc. 
- MYSQL can be connected to many programing languages like Python, PHP, Java, Node.js and so on.
- The MYSQL database can be replicated across multiple nodes. It can balance the workload.

The following are some **MongoDB** benefits and strengths:
- Open source, it's free.
- It's flexible to change the data structure.
- Its horizontal scalability is able to reduece the workload.
- It's high-performing for simple queries.
